.\"
.\" REGEX AND SHELL QUOTING
.\"
.SH REGEX AND SHELL QUOTING
When entering a regular expression argument in the shell command line
it is often necessary to use quoting (enclosing the argument in " "
or ' ') in order to prevent the shell from interpreting certain
characters, for example, spaces as argument separators and $ as
variable expansions.

Unfortunately it is hard to achieve this in a manner that is portable
across POSIX shells, such as those found on GNU/Linux and UNIX, and
Windows shell. For example, if you use " " for quoting you will get
a wrong result with POSIX shells if your expression contains $. The
standard way of dealing with this on POSIX systems is to use ' '
instead. Unfortunately, Windows shell does not remove ' '  from
arguments when they are passed to applications. As a result you may
have to use ' ' for POSIX and " " for Windows ($ is not treated as
a special character on Windows).

Alternatively, you can save regular expression options into a file,
one option per line, and use this file with the
.B --options-file
option. With this approach you don't need to worry about shell quoting.
.\"
.\" DIAGNOSTICS
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If the input file is not valid C++,
.B odb
will issue diagnostic messages to STDERR and exit with non-zero exit code.
.\"
.\" BUGS
.\"
.SH BUGS
Send bug reports to the odb-users@codesynthesis.com mailing list.
.\"
.\" COPYRIGHT
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2009-2011 Code Synthesis Tools CC.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
version 1.2; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts and
no Back-Cover Texts. Copy of the license can be obtained from
http://www.codesynthesis.com/licenses/fdl-1.3.txt
